
# Saladin Class

The Saladin class was, in theory, a 'perfect' light combat ship. 
The idea was to take the successful components of the Constitution class ships and
strip them down to a lighter but still potent destroyer. And, in many ways, the Saladin does indeed perform moderately well.

Early into the class's production, however, a potentially severe problem began to manifest. 
Unlike the previous-generation engines, the PB-32 used on the Saladin would generate instability
which could lead to accidental wormhole effects
or structural damage if pressed near maximum outputs. 
Even though a skilled engineer can compensate for this flaw, 
this was still obviously not a situation that a starship should have! 
Despite this flaw, however, the power generated by the SB-32 was
still greater than its predecessor and the 'safe' warp
speeds also matched or slightly bettered the previ- ous generation as well.

Though not as stellar as a performer as hoped, due
to the instability of the single SB-32 engine, the destroyer was put into heavy production to serve as
needed defense along the Neutral Zones and along trade routes.

### Editor's Annotations

The _Saladin_ first appeared in the Franz Joseph technical manual and was envisioned as a 'small' craft
using components of the USS Enterpriseí. She was
meant to be a spin-off design, serving in a purely
military role as a destroyer. The ship class has appeared both in the form presented here, and in a
'movie-refit' form (shown in this guide as the Jenghiz class), in numerous works since.

Despite its familiarity with the fans, this is one of
those ships that Gene Rodenberry declared 'non-canon' back in the days of The Motion Picture. The
use of a single warp engine was cited as 'proof' that the ship could not actually exist, even though
members of the class are mentioned in dialog in
The Motion Picture and its schematics appear in three of the feature films. Obviously, there ís an
apparent disconnect between Gene Roddenberry and pretty much everyone that worked for him.

(As an aside, the ërulesí that Gene Roddenberry
was citing were of his own invention, made considerably after a good amount of official material
was published about starships. To many, these
new ërulesí seemed much more an attempt to
take back the technology in Trek, often at the cot
of popular works, rather than any real thought-out effort as to how ships would work.)

This guide uses only the first 'batch' from the
Technical manual as members of the Saladin
class., and assumes that, for whatever reason, the
SB-1 has problems when used as a single engine
configuration.